Israel's Ambassador meanwhile to the
United Nations says his country will no
longer issue visas to un Personnel
following criticism of Israel's conduct
of War by un Secretary General Antonio
gues gues drew a furious response from
Israel after stating that Hamas Terror
attacks didn't happen in a vacuum the UN
Chief has defended his remarks saying
they were taken out of context I am
shocked by the
misrepresentations by some of my
statement yesterday in the security
Council as
if as if I was justifying acts of Terror
by
amas this is
false it was the
opposite in the beginning of my
intervention yesterday I clearly stated
and I quote I have condemned
unequivocally the horrifying and
unprecedented 7 October acts of Terror
by amas in Israel nothing can justify
the deliberate killing injuring and
kidnapping of civilians or the launching
of rockets against civilian targets end
quote indeed I spoke of the Grievances
of the Palestinian
people and in doing so I also clearly
stated and I quote that the Grievances
of the Palestinian people cannot justify
the appalling attacks by amas end quote
and then I went on with my intervention
referring all my positions on all
aspects of the Middle East
crisis I believe it was necessary to set
the record
straight especially out of
respect to the victims and to their
families thank you all right let's bring
in Sergey vasilev he's a associate
professor of international criminal law
at the University of Amsterdam welcome
to you this week the the UN Secretary
General expressed concern about what he
called clear violations of international
humanitarian law in Gaza before we
assess this statement what exactly are
the rules of international humanitarian
law uh good afternoon um the rules of
international humanitarian law uh set
limitations on how the belligerent
parties may have recourse to uh to
Warfare it sets certain limits on on the
means and methods of warfare in which um
the militants can engage for example uh
the principle of uh
distinction um uh obligates the Waring
parties to distinguish between civilian
and Military objectives and not to make
the uh civilian um objects and civilian
population the objects of attack the
principle of proportionality demands
that uh the war parties refrain from
launching attacks um um which may result
in um disproportionate incidental uh
damage to the civilian uh population and
to civilian
infrastructure so with that in mind is
the UN Secretary General right are these
rules being violated in Gaza and by
whom uh it is highly likely that the
rules of international humanitarian law
are being uh violated uh in in Gaza
however uh before rushing to conclusions
it is of utmost importance that uh the
facts are uh established in a credible
uh and impartial uh manner by the
respective International um fact finding
bodies we may restate uh the rules uh
that apply to the armed uh to the
conduct of armed conflict but the
factual determinations that need to be
made should be be left to um independent
and impartial investigators and if need
be to prosecutors and
judges how then can you realistically
enforce these rules on a battlefield you
talk or allude to the fog of
War and what options are there to punish
those who violate it in this
circumstance uh the primary
responsibility for uh enforcing rules of
international communitarian law ensuring
compliance with International
humanitarian law lies of course with
Waring parties themselves in this case
with Hamas and with Israel however if
the international humanitarian law rules
are violated um they may be a
possibility and there needs to be um
individual accountability for those who
engage in such behavior and in this uh
case the international criminal court is
exercising uh jurisdiction uh over
the situation in
Palestine uh so there is a possibility
that uh in the future cases would be uh
brought against those individuals who
have allegedly engaged in the commission
of war crimes and crimes against
humanity uh Israel is not a signatory to
the ICC obviously neither is Hamas so in
reality would violations like these go
unpunished um indeed Hamas is not uh a
party to the international criminal
court nor is Israel however the state of
Palestine has exceeded uh to the ICC
statute and um in decision from
2021 the SEC pretrial chamber has
confirmed that the court has
jurisdiction over um the conduct which
may amount to International crimes
committed uh in in the territory of uh
the state of pales
namely uh the the Gaza Strip as well as
the West Bank including East Jerusalem
so it does not matter that Israel uh is
not a state party to the IC because any
crimes that it may have committed in in
the Gaza Strip still fall within the
jurisdiction of of the I and in the same
manner uh the crimes that may have been
committed by uh the the Hamas Fighters
uh in the territory of Israel they would
also be covered by the SEC jurisdiction
s filv associate professor of the
international criminal law at University
of Amsterdam thank
you thank you for having
me let's uh look at this now with Stefan
Talman who's an expert on international
law and joins us from Bon welcome to DW
um the UN Secretary General uh this week
said there had been clear violations of
international humanitarian law in in
Gaza we'll assess his statement uh in
just a moment first though for the
Layman what are the the rules of
international humanitarian
law the rules of international
humanitarian law are laid down in the
Geneva conventions and the protocols
there too and uh International customary
law uh the rules of international
humanitarian law govern the means and
methods of warfare so what you can do
lawfully in a war right and is the un uh
Secretary General right do you think are
these rules being violated in Gaza and
if so by
whom the UN Secretary General in my view
is correct in stating that the uh laws
of international humanitarian law are
violated the violation of these rules
started with the attack by Hamas on
Israel on the 7th of October which was a
clear violation of international
humanitarian law but the law is also
violated by Israel in its response to
that attack uh for example Israel has
declared a Complete Siege of the Gaza
Strip denying the civilian population
their essential Necessities such as food
and water or fuel and
electricity uh and this is in violation
of the conventions and the general rules
of international humanitarian law right
which among others proh forgive me for
interrupting so but when um Israel uh uh
retorts to that that this is essential
in order for us to root out Hamas
because Hamas are amongst the the Gaza
population clearly you don't see that as
a as a a useful
defense no Israel has the right to
self-defense but this right to
self-defense has to be exercised within
the framework of international
humanitarian law and international
humanitarian law prohibits Collective
punishment what Israel is doing at the
moment by imposing a Complete Siege on
the Gaza Strip is in effect Collective
punishment of 2.3 million uh Palestinian
civilians living down Israel not a
signatry to the international uh
Criminal Court obviously neither is
Hamas um do we therefore presume that
any violations in this conflict are
likely to go
unpunished not necessarily I assume that
if Hamas Fighters would be captured by
uh Israel they would be put on trial in
Israel but uh the Palestinian National
Authority in the West Bank has uh
ratified the Rome statute of the
international criminal court which means
that the international criminal court
has jurisdiction over the Palestinian
occupied territories and could
investigate any violations of
international humanitarian law both by
Israel and by Hamas Fighters because it
is the place where the alleged
violations happen that fall under the
the the egis of this law rather than the
signaries that's correct it depends
either on where the crime has been
committed
or what nationality the perpetrator of
the crime
has so comparing the conflict in Gaza
with that in Ukraine King Abdullah of
Jordan has accused the west of double
standards does he have a
point I think he does because of course
the the West is conspicuously silent on
any violations of international
humanitarian law currently going on on
in Gaza uh the West seems to emphasize
mainly Israel's right to self-defense
which unquestionably exists but it does
not point to any violations of
international humanitarian law for
example by Israel the West calls for
humanitarian access but it does not
State what the reason is that
humanitarian Aid cannot get through
namely the uh Siege imposed by Israel
which as I said before is a violation of
international law that's very clear
thank you for talking us through that
Stefan Talman thank you so
much thank
you